Autodoc - an automated documentation system for Clojure
=======================================================

Introduction
------------

Autodoc is a system for generating HTML documentation for Clojure
projects. It is used to create the up-to-the minute published API
documentation for [Clojure
itself](http://richhickey.github.com/clojure), 
the [Clojure-contrib
library](http://richhickey.github.com/clojure-contrib), and the
statistics package, [Incanter](http://liebke.github.com/incanter).

Autodoc leverages two aspects of Clojure in particular:

* Clojure supports documentation strings on all variables (including functions
  and macros)
* Clojure projects are organized into namespaces.

When run over a project, Autodoc will generate:

1. An overview page (called index.html) with a description of the
project, and an overview of each namespace (from the namespace's
metadata) with a list of documented, public variables and functions in
that namespace. <put an image>
2. A page for each namespace in the project which has the detailed
documentation for each variable, function and macro. This includes
name, type, usage and documentation. <add a snippet>
3. A global index of all the documented variables, their namespace,
and a snippet of their documentation. <add a snippet>

By default, Autodoc produces documentation that looks a lot like
Clojure's own API documentation. However, it is possible to customize
both the style and layout of the pages generated by Autodoc to your
tastes.

Autodoc can be run directly from the command line or can be used from
build tools like ant or
[leiningen](http://github.com/technomancy/leiningen).

Running Autodoc
---------------

### Getting Autodoc ###


### From the command line ###

### Autodoc parameters ###

Integrating Autodoc with your build
-----------------------------------

### Building with Leiningen ###

### Building with Ant ### 

### Maven ###

Autodoc currently does not support Maven. It is planned, though. Patches welcome.

Making Autodoc work with source code management
-----------------------------------------------

Customizing Autodoc
-------------------


